My code tapping e-mail address.
Just as a thing, if you know,
feel free to speak up if you have any
questions. You know,
I'd be happy to stop and answer any
questions that that you have.
But I'd like to 1st off, you know,
welcome you to the course and let's go
through a a brief introduction period.
I'd like to know a little bit more about
who you guys are and so if you could tell
me who you are,
what you do and what you've done with the
A I tools and what you're expecting to
learn in the next 5 days.
I'll start out. As I said,
I'm a principal software developer at
Code Staffing.
What I do is I'm working primarily right
now on internal applications for code,
so this is a good basic basically.
Interesting because it's a it's a new
code base for me.
So when we talk about legacy software
development is, you know,
these are coming from, you know,
hard won stories of having to go into
code bases that I'm not familiar with and
actually having to make some progress.
So what I've done with AI tools is quite
a quite a bit.
I think as you'll see in as we get into
the the brownfield and the Greenfield
portions of the course is put a quite a
bit of effort into trying to make this
more, make, make,
make it more productive and make it more
reliable of a process.
And what I want to learn on the course is,
you know,
how I can improve this course and make it
more relevant for other people. So, Peter,
would you would you like to go next?
Sure, my name is Peter Vjernik.
I'm a software engineer and I would like
to learn everything I can about how to
use GitHub Copilot properly.
All right.
That's it.
All right, uh, Jake.
Yeah, I'm Jake. I'm a systems engineer.
I've used AI tools mostly just like
prompting LM's,
but I've never used like an integrated
IDE AI tool like this. So yeah,
just wanna sort of see how that that's
used.
All right.
And we'll get some good experience out
that after lunch today, Seth.
So I'm Seth Terence.
I am the verification automation
architect.
I've got background in building test
cases,
test automation frameworks and also
working with teams to just build process
and focus on quality.
Currently I'm just playing around with AI,
trying to figure out how I can utilize it
to help speed up my ability to analyze
and build out verification systems.
Oh, so you'll be the,
you'll be the guy to make sure that we
have enough tough cut test coverage then,
right?
Uh, hopefully it's not just me.
Hopefully it's everybody. But yes.
Yeah. All right. Uh, Mike.
So Mike Harding, I'm a systems engineer.
I have very limited experience with AI
tools other than some basic web-based
search stuff.
So just learning to see how this will
integrate with software.
Go from there.
Right, right. Uh, Jan.
My name is Ian.
My job is mainly about to write C# code
in our application. And yeah,
that's what I'll do.
Why I'm my title is a software developer.
All right. Thank you for that. And Tom.
Director of Product Development.
I I think I attended to join your your
webinar and that's how I got connected
and inspired.
My objective is to instead of hiring army
of developers to to see if we could find
innovative way.
With IA or AI assisted way of developing
software, there's a lot of buzzwords,
but I'm looking forward to discover
what's actually feasible and possible
today and then if we stay in touch,
and I hope so we do, then we can.
Roll it out into more effective way to
not only develop but also verify and
deploy software into the product and the
market.
Sounds sounds good. So thank you.
Thank you all for that.
OK.
Let's just talk about the the agenda for
today's course.
I'll just start for the brief overview
and we'll talk about you know AI assisted
software development.
Then we'll get into a section that will
will basically go through how this whole
all this.
How these LLMS work for developing code
and take a look at the actual
architecture diagram.
We'll talk about actually what is the
process that the LLM goes through in
order to actually write code.
Then we'll turn into a section where
we'll talk about how to consider.
Using a copilot in an enterprise team,
this is really gonna deal with how to
protect your IP and what are some of the
risks that you're gonna be facing as you
actually start to use it on a day-to-day
basis.
Then we'll get into an overview of the
actual tool, how to get it installed,
what does a chat window look like?
What are the different features?
How we can actually use it on a
day-to-day basis and then we'll have a
hands on section and then we're gonna get
into what I would call a vibe coding
section where we're going to
collaboratively work together on writing
some code.
That will that we can write in some code
and see how how far we can get in the the
time that we have in the rest of the day
towards implementing something that's
actually working.
Any questions on the agenda?
One thing I wanted to just add, John,
real quick is we are recording the
session.
We are more than happy to stop the
recording at any point.
If if there is some, you know,
sensitive topics being discussed,
just let me or John just basically
mention it. Hey,
can we stop the recording?
We'll stop it and then we'll pick it back
up.
Just wanted to let everybody know that,
so thanks, John.
Sure.
All right, so course objective.
We want to understand how to manipulate
Copilot into successfully modifying
legacy code bases, right?
So we so the the idea here is that we're
not letting Copilot write the code,
but we're using it to help us write write
better code and write it faster.
So we're focusing on AI assistance,
which means that the AI will be helping
us and as well as assisting the AI,
which is important because we need to
provide as much help as we can to the A I
in order for us to get output that that's
actually usable.
So there's less emphasis on the syntax.
It really doesn't matter what language
they're going to be.
Be using for the course as much as the
general concepts apply and it's more
emphasis on the architecture, the design,
the code quality, refactoring, testing,
things.
Those become much more important as we
move into an AI assisted world.
So we want to strive for moving faster,
but with less risk.
So why A I assisted software development?
It's it's, you know,
A I is obviously I think revolution
revolutionizing software development,
right.
It will ruin some careers and it will
revitalize others. So it was it's,
you know, in terms of ruining careers,
it's I think it's basically.
There's a an idea that that's been fairly
widely popularized.
It's that it's not AI that's going to
replace you as a developer.
It's going to be somebody that actually
can effectively utilize AI and so,
but if you can effectively use utilize it.
In my my opinion,
it will give you superpowers because it
really gives you the courage to take on
code bases that you would that few people
would ever touch or technologies that you
want to learn or and write more high
quality code than any who have ever
written before.
And then finally,
I think what I think is also important is
that it's it's going to allow you to take
on more work as an organization than you
would have been able to take on before
because you can actually have the AI
allow you to take on some of the,
you know, nice to haves.
The idea here is that.
I I'm sure you all have a a softer you
have a backlog in your that you that you
of items that you want to get to and
those are all prioritized by must haves
and nice to haves and things that you
probably won't get to and.
In my experience,
we very rarely get to the nice to haves.
It's always something more important than
those that actually gets attention.
But I think that the things on the nice
to haves list are usually the things that
really had a lot of.
Value,
but they're not really directly
applicable,
applicable to the main line of
development.
So being able to take on those nice to
haves really opens up software
development to a whole wide range of
opportunities to implement things that we
just never really had the time to
implement before.
All right.
So let's get into a just an introduction
of what an LLM is.
So we'll talk about what a large,
these are large language models.
We'll do a conceptual overview how they
work.
We'll talk about their capabilities and
limitations,
software engineering with AI as a tool
versus.
What you know by coding and then we'll
get into some do's and don'ts.
Just to kind of reiterate the overview,
the first part of the course,
the first I think before lunch,
we're going to be spending a lot of time
just discussing what the what what we're
trying to accomplish here.
And then the then after lunch we'll get
into a lot more exercises in in working
with the tools. So first,
so a conceptual view.
LLNS are trained on massive data sets,
right? And these are data sets of code,
so you can pretty much imagine that.
All of the code that people have put into
get into into GitHub or or other code
repositories.
These have all been used to change to
train these models as in the training
process there's an effort to try to
identify.
Or prioritize the value of the data so
that they're trying to train these on the
most on the on the best examples of of
code and not just all of them in general.
They use what's called a transformer
architect to understand the patterns in
the code itself.
And then it uses token based processing
where the code is broken down into tokens.
And we'll talk about tokens in a little
bit because it's something that you have
to kind of pay attention to.
And this something called an attention
mechanism helps the models focus on the
relevant parts of the context. So it's.
It's reading your code base,
it's reading the context in which you've
given it in terms of describing what you
want,
and it's turning that into and it's
prioritizing that in terms of the
attention mechanism.
So it's focusing on the most relevant
parts in order to try to produce
something that's actually closer to what
you're expecting.
And then it generates A probabilistic
next token predictions based on those
training patterns.
So it's not true understanding.
It's pattern matching at a very,
very large scale.
So if we mention understanding anywhere
in the course,
we're really not talking about
understanding in a.
Conceptual sense.
We're talking about understanding in a
more of a statistical analysis sense and
a predictive analytic sense,
where it's trying to first to try to to
understand by tokenizing what you're the
context that you're giving it,
and then it's using that context.
In order to predict what the most likely
next, you know,
next piece of code should be.
Any any questions on this?
Alrighty, so capabilities,
code completion and general and
generation from natural language.
You can refactor code and optimize code.
You can detect bugs and and fix finding
and fixing recommendations.
You can generate documentation.
You can generate test cases.
You can use it to just explain to you the
how you know what is going on with the
code with code.
You know one of my favorite examples of
this is is deciphering regex expressions.
You know it's certain it's not my Forte.
In terms of interpreting something like
that,
but if you just ask a copilot to explain
it,
it will it will break it down very
precisely,
characterize our character and explain it,
explain it to you.
Great tool for learning a code base or
learning code that you're not familiar
with is just.
Have the AI explain it and then you can
augment that with actually commenting the
code itself,
generating documentation and you can
actually do a multi languages board and
we're talking about coding language here
where it will translate.
You can ask it to translate between
languages so you can say take this.
This example that's in written in Go and
turn it into C# code or or or go the
other way.
So some limitations,
no real knowledge updates.
What this means is that all of these LNMS
are based on a static set of of data that
was accurate as of as of a point in time.
And so they also,
so they don't really understand anything
that's happened since that that training
date in some some of the data.
It can be a year or 18 months old before
they have an opportunity to retrain the
model so that you get more accurate
information.
That's for code generation.
It's not as big of a problem because
we're not really asking it current facts.
We're really saying, you know,
can you write some code that can do this?
But it will be,
it will affect us in terms of knowing
things like, oh,
what is the most recent version of
something or.
Dealing with anything that's a temporal
data that's recent,
you can generate syntactically correct
code, but logically flawed.
So I've seen lots of examples of this
where I've asked it to do something and
it'll produce something.
That it that it says is correct,
but you run it and it doesn't work.
I'm sure you've all heard about
hallucinations with, you know,
where it's it inserts that something is
true, but it.
But incorrectly suggests something else.
We'll talk about some strategies for
dealing with that,
and generally the whole idea is to try to
provide very concrete instructions.
There are some context window limitations.
It's a finite amount of memory that the
Copilot has available.
In order for it to be able to understand
and predict when you start to exceed that
context window,
it starts to forget things and you'll see
it actually repeat itself or not having
to go and try to re understand some code
that it's already written.
And again,
it doesn't understand business logic or
domain specific requirements.
It can just use the context in order to
predict what it thinks that the next
piece of code should be or the actual,
you know, string of characters should be.
It's it's really that it's very that that
that low level of a process.
And security vulnerables are are not
reviewed unless they explicitly ask for
those types of things.
And so you have to also be careful about,
you know,
introducing security issues into your
code and take steps to actually mitigate
for that.
And the last point here is that there can
be bias from the training data. It can.
It only understands what it's been
trained on,
and if it hasn't been trained on the
programming language that you're working
on,
or for the examples that it's been
trained on are not the best examples,
then you're not going to get the best
outcome. It it is the, you know, standard.
Computer garbage in, garbage out scenario.
It's just scaled up.
Any questions?
All right.
So what we really want to talk about is I
think software engineering versus Vibe
coding.
So Vibe coding is basically in the
process.
So you just you give it the prompts and
you take the results and then you just
continue to iterate on that.
You can have some success with that.
But in a a large environment with a large
code base,
you really need to take a more of an
engineering approach which is systematic,
tested, documented and maintainable.
While you know, I guess I said it works,
you end up with a a technical debt
accumulation.
So AI think of it in terms of AI
enhancing our engineering practices,
but not replacing them.
You still need to do proper testing,
code reviews, architecture.
It's all still essential. In fact,
I think because AI is going to be
producing so much additional code.
These these these particular skills I
think are are even more essential than
they were in the past.
So some do's always review and test the
AI generated code.
So you know that goes back to in terms of
maintaining our code quality.
Want to make sure that that the not just
the code works, but that the code is,
you know, good clean code that we.
Yeah,
equivalent to what we would actually
write ourselves. Provide clear,
specific prompts with context.
We'll spend a lot of time.
Trying to provide that context with our
when we were actually asking it to write
code and and there's several different
ways that we can do this and I think if
we when we the more that we can provide
good context that's clear the the better
output that we're going to see.
You can you can use AI to explore
different implementation approaches.
This is actually something I can show
fairly easily,
and you can then where we can actually
ask two different AIS to implement the
same approach and then ask the third AI
to give us the pros and cons of each
implementation.
And then we can use that information to
make a decision about where we actually
want to take the take the implementation.
And of course we can leverage AI for
documentation and generating tests.
And in my experience,
the test generation process is a bit hit
and miss.
In that it will generate a test,
but many times the test won't work and
then it will then go through a cycle of
iterating on that test in order to
improve it and finally get it to function.
I've seen it not fail to generate a test,
but take several iterations to go and
actually.
We find and produce that test and as a
code base gets more complicated that that
process gets a little more complicated as
well.
Some some don'ts blindly accept AI
suggestions, right? We just yeah,
we've heard stories from other industries
where people have taken those suggestions
and and really cause problems for
themselves because they didn't actually
review the the.
What AI had suggested.
We don't want to skip the testing because
AI wrote it.
That's certainly not going to be the case.
We we want to use AI for critical source,
critical security,
a safety critical code without extensive
validation of that code.
You know, to me it's like, you know,
you you first want to set your
environment up so where those critical
security and safety critical issues are
called out in advance in terms of how the
A I should be handling those things.
And then do an extensive review
afterwards to to verify that and then do
your standard security scanning and
testing in order to be able to identify
any uses that come out the other end.
Rely AI on architectural decisions
without human oversight.
One of the things that I think is a real
benefit of using AI is that you can
surface these architectural decisions and
you can then reach a decision as a group
about how you want to approach them as we
get farther into the course tomorrow and
the next day and we'll be doing quite a
lot.
About providing context into the into the
models and and then which provides us
with a great deal of a real good
opportunity for us to actually agree upon
what what is the right way of approaching
a problem.
And of course you know generate code
without understanding the the logic.
You know AI can help you with with with
that process quite a bit with as I as I
said about explaining things.
The idea here is that there should be no
reason that you should look at a piece of
code and not understand what it is when
AI can tell you exactly what it does and
break it down piece by piece and explain
it to you.
All right,
let's take a look at a architecture
diagram.
This kind of goes through the process of
of producing some code with with an LNM.
This this diagram was produced by an LLM.
I've reviewed it and it it looks
perfectly fine to me.
But if this is generating these kinds of
diagrams is something I'll show and we'll
talk about a little bit later in the
course.
So the idea is we start with some
developer input and we come in natural
language and we add that with some code
context and that gives the the elements
some sense of what the actual code looks
like and what you're trying to accomplish.
Then basically we go through a
tokenization step which takes that text
and turns it into tokens.
It breaks it down into words and
characters in a tokenized format that
makes the model easier to understand.
Then there's an embedding layer where
those tokens are turned into vectors,
and then there's a transform layer which
is and that where that self attention and
feed forward comes back.
This is like where the real magic happens
that takes.
The tokens that you've given it in terms
of the context,
it adds the training data and the code
repositories and the documentation that
it understands and then there are some
fine tuning code specific training that
it gets done.
That happens at the back end in the model
to try to improve the performance of the
model in generating code.
All of that gets combined together.
Into a context window and which is that
limited memory buffer which then goes to
the the pattern recognition step and the
code patterns and syntax understanding.
Then then there the the probability
distribution occurs which tries to
predict what the next token should be.
Then there's a decoding strategy,
which then turns the tokens back into.
Basically that's a strategy search in
terms of what should be generated.
Then there's the cogeneration portion,
which turns the token back into text.
And then there's a post-processing syntax
validation that the models do again to
try to catch for to catch errors.
And finally you get the you get to see
the code and you get to validate it.
If it's acceptable,
you can then keep the code,
otherwise you can refine the prompt in
the context.
And go all the way back to the top and
try it again. Any questions on that?
You see me looking over to my left.
It's because that's where I have the
teams.
Yeah, I have a question.
Can you scroll back up to the top?
Sure, go ahead. Sure.
Can you scroll back up to the top?
This like fine tuning code specific
training.
Is this like like specifically in the
context of using GitHub Copilot?
Cause like you know you like select your
model,
is that does that like tell the model
that you're sort of using in a code?
Like a coding like you're using it for
writing code, I guess.
Is that what that is specifically?
Yeah,
it's that and it's also you know language
specific fine tuning that's done the the
models,
the models are tweaked in terms of what
what is in terms of priorities of
different aspects of of the model.
So they.
When they're building the models,
they tweak those in order to try to to
improve the output.
And so that this fine tuning is going to
be not just, you know,
the fact that you're actually trying to
write code,
it'll be what language you're actually
using and it'll be fine-tuned to.
For for that purpose it'll all be also be
fine-tuned on you know coding practices
and and things like that you know in
order to try to improve the the the
quality of the code that it writes and so.
So this this is something that. Sorry,
I didn't mean to interrupt you.
No, I think I know what your question is.
This is something that happens on the
back end and the model.
This is not something that you do in the
front end.
But well, my question is,
is this something that like GitHub
copilot or is it like GitHub adds like on
top of the model?
Or this is something that like say you're
using like one of Open AI's models,
No.
Open AI would use this. OK,
so this this probably isn't something
Right, right, right.
that you could like customize yourself
then.
No, no, no.
And there's a lot of effort to try to in
some circles to try to try and expose and
make some of these.
I think it's like at the top they call
weighting.
They like like weight certain aspects of
the model to make that more transparent
to you,
but it is something that's baked into the
model itself.
OK, that makes sense.
John, can I ask a question?
Other.
Yeah, of course.
Oh, so if I'm not a data scientist,
how do I know which model to pick for
what?
Well, that's a good question.
I didn't create a slide for this,
but I probably should.
But if you do a search or a copilot query
for model comparisons for generating code,
there's a couple of sites out there that
that's where they make their.
That's our purpose is is that they take a
whole series of code generation prompts
and they run them through each of the
models and then they evaluate the output
and and rank the models based on how they
perform in different aspects.
Right and right. Oh,
at least up until most recently,
the the the leader in that area was it
was Claude Sonnet 4.5 but copilot.
Chachi B Chachi DB5 is starting to.
To come out on top on some of these
coding exercises.
So there's a real competition in the
coding space because coding is 1 use of
AI that is really taken off.
You know,
I've seen reports where in in the
consumer space things are are tending to
slow down because people are not willing
to pay for a an A I to do work for them
on the on the consumer space so much.
But if you ask a room of developers,
more than half of them will raise their
hand that they're already paying for AI.
And you're honestly, you know,
I pay for it as well.
And and you guys are in the process of
obtaining a license to edit a while
because it's a really valuable tool for
code generation.
OK. Thank you.
Sure.
All right,
so now let's talk about considerations
for adoption,
the idea empowering developers with a I
while protecting the code base.
So this is the prompt I used actually to
create this to create the white paper
that I distributed as well as the the
slide deck from that model.
I reviewed it with a couple of people and
it looks it's accurate.
So that I I basically I said I wanted to
know how GitHub Copilot protects this the
intellectual property, the documentation.
I wanted to know if it was isolated from
other users.
Is it incorporated into the model and
then leaked to other users?
How can I protect the IP while using
GitHub Copilot?
So this deck was based on that research.
So the benefits as we've been talking
about are accelerated developments,
improved documentation, enhanced testing,
team productivity.
All of this is on the plus side,
but we want to consider the risk.
One of them is call one is referred to
leakage.
We're co-piling message code similar to
public repositories.
So something you have to be concerned
about is inadvertently using copyrighted
or licensed code in your application
application.
So there's a mitigation for that is
enabling public or called public code
filters and review those suggestions
carefully.
If you have the the enterprise model,
I believe the enterprise version of
Copilot.
I'm not sure about the business version.
I don't recall it at the top of my head,
but the enterprise version will indemnify
the organization from claims where you've
used copyrighted or license code,
which means that they will, you know,
vouch for the fact that it's not licensed
or copyrighted and be able to stand up.
In a state on why they believe that's so.
So there's a,
but you have to turn that capability on.
So that's kind of an administrative task
when you are deploying copilot,
copilot in an organization is to enable
that if that's a concern that you have.
And I think it's worthwhile to do that
just just for that indemnification.
You also have to consider code quality
and accuracy. You know, we all know about,
you know,
AI is since it's a predictive model,
there's no guarantee it's going to
predict the right thing.
So it could contain contain bugs,
security flaws,
all kinds of other kinds of issues that
you'll have to address.
And so that so you always need to to
validate and test that code.
You keep treat Copilot as a drafting tool,
not as a necessarily a source of truth.
You know, I I like to, I like to,
I like to consider Copilot as kind of
like a junior developer that has a huge
body of knowledge on on coding.
And is super productive,
but you have to manage them very
carefully.
You have to manage what they are,
what you tell them and you have to manage
in terms of reviewing what they're
actually giving you back and there's a
risk of.
You know,
falling into the vibe coding mode where
you are letting go of the actual
intellectual property and letting the AI
actually take on a larger role.
And you really need to stay on top of
that because you can easily become.
Overwhelmed with the amount of code it
will produce and so you need to kind of
slow down in some cases and take a closer
look at what is actually being done and
what you're actually telling it to do and
not be afraid to abandon an approach and
have it start over with more context in
order to try to.
Get you closer to the target that you're
trying to meet.
Questions.
All right.
Governments and compliance risk.
So you may have regulatory compliance.
I'm sure you guys do that where you need
to,
you need to meet in terms of the code
that you write.
So you you need to be able to enforce
those coding practices and policies and
and get prepared for audits.
I'll show you some techniques.
Nick's um.
Tomorrow for actually logging.
What the AI is is doing so that you can
have a a an on trail of all the work
that's been done.
By the A I what the what prompts did you
use?
What what models in a way you can figure
out what model you're using at the time
and what decisions were made at the and
what kind of context that you gave it in
order for you to to execute the
cogeneration.
And then again,
I mentioned about the resembling code
under restrictive licenses and that you
know you need to be able to define
acceptable use policies and monitor for
compliance and AI can help you with with
this as well. So you.
Couple of things, IP and data protection.
Your code is not used to retrain the
model.
That's with a lesser extent with the free
and the pro models and to a greater
extent with the business and enterprise
models. So you can configure the tool to.
And to say that none of the none of the
code that you've sent it can be used to
train the model,
therefore it won't be able to leak back
to any other user in the future.
Suggestions are generated locally,
so no code is shared unless feedback is
actually submitted to the model.
There's no leakage between users.
Your private code is not exposed to to
others,
and admins can disable suggestions
matching public code for added safety.
So this is also some some ways you can
essentially configure Copilot to make
sure that you know.
It's it's like not putting you at
additional legal risk by using the tool.
Questions on this.
All right,
so copilot may suggest code that's
similar to open positive cop dot a couple
of times.
So GitHub provides a filter to block
matching code in public and you should
review both the terms of service and the
privacy statement to make sure that you
understand what those licensing and legal
requirements are.
All right.
So we mentioned the different versions of
it.
This is talking about the IP protection
for each of them.
The individual licenses have no admin
controls and it's limited IP protection.
So there is, you know,
there is a chance that some of that could
go,
should could trickle back into the model
and eventually show up on somebody else's
screen.
Copilot for Business has admin controls
and policy informers which are strong and
the enterprises that has the strongest
organis org-wide policy and audit tools
that you can take advantage of.
So just some best practices.
So enable those public code filters and
and then do those suggestions before
committing the code.
So those are I think is good programming.
If the review is going to programming
practice and then we want to educate
teams like we're talking about now on
that responsibility use and being aware
of the license.
The more resources to take a look at is
the copilot documentation.
There's a copilot for business overview
documentation and a security privacy FAQ
that you could have access to. All right,
let's get into copilot now.
So any questions on any of that material?
And it's a bit dry,
but it's important that we understand
what it is.
How exactly do we enable those public
code filters?
Well,
you'll have an admin console that you can
go in and do that there.
I actually have not done that myself
because I don't have access to an
enterprise license,
but I could help you figure that out.
OK. Thanks.
All right,
so let's talk about the Copilot UI in VS
Code and some key features.
So how to add context,
how to reference extensions,
how to execute commands.
So let's take a look at those first.
Let me bring up a.
Instance of copilot.
So I have a simple project empty repo
pretty much.
And so here's the here's the copilot
window. Is this can we see this OK?
Is it too small?
Good for me.
Looks good.
Is fun.
All right, thanks. So up here is the.
Is to start a new chat.
So this part of the UI basically allows
you to essentially clear the context and
start fresh.
This is something you tend to want to you
want to do when you're moving from one
particular piece of focus to another,
so it isolates that.
And you can view the history to say what?
What you can see here I had a issue with
the this GitHub repository and asked it
to help me help me fix the SSH problems
that I was having.
And then here's the new chat I just
started and you can see a list here that
all of the chats that you've gone and you
can pick one and for this one it'll show
you.
What what it went through in the course
of helping me solve this issue.
So this is good because now you have a
chat history that you can deal with.
You here are some settings that you can
that you can set for integral aspects of
things you can.
Generate agent instructions and chat
settings, and these chat settings are,
you know,
things that you can do to control how
copilot works. You can the one that I.
Typically what to try to do is.
Where was this? This changes quite often.
Um.
Yeah,
I'm not seeing what I was thinking of
here,
but there's a there's a setting that
talks about how to deal with the terminal
window that's useful to set.
I think that's in the actual VS code
settings. I can.
I'll show you that in a bit.
So.
Undo the last request.
You can open the open the chat in the in
the editor.
Show a debug view of the of the chat and
or open the chat in a new window and then
up here there's an additional options for
for opening up a chat,
opening up a quick chat and a quick chat
is nice in the sense that it just turns
this into a another problem.
We do in addition to this one that you
can also add context to and execute
prompts.
It's good when you're doing something
here,
but you have something that's slightly
unrelated and you don't want to interrupt
the context of this chat.
You can create another one and do some
work in quick chat.
As well as you configure code pollutions
and you can manage the the chat itself
and which actually takes you to copilot.
For for that repo and you can actually
have some do some settings here for
copilot.
All right,
so down into the main chat window,
the add context button allows you to add
different kinds of context and and
context is important because it is really
what what copilot.
Has tokenized in terms of understanding
in your for about about your problem.
So the context is a limited resource.
In fact,
it's limited in two different ways.
It's limited in both what what.
Can do with the information that you've
given it so far in this session,
and it's also a limitation or something
that we have to keep track of down here
that says you know how you've actually
used copilot.
And you can see here that premium
requests I've used so far this month.
Over 54% of the of my allotment in my in
my subscription for copilot.
Now I think enterprise those those limits
are very,
very high and I actually since I upgraded
to the pro press.
Version.
I've not actually exceeded this limit,
but I did in the standard pro version and
you here you can.
What?
What is considered a premium request?
All right, that's a good question.
Premium question.
If you look at the models here over here,
this tells you whether the premium what
what basically did.
These models don't count against your
premium request.
These are standard models that you can
take as much use of as you want.
Right, so that's basically chat to GP4,
right?
Then you you have a model here that says
a cloud haiku 4.
5 preview is 1/3 of a token and you have
those tokens.
It was that bar I was showing you before,
so it's how many tokens.
Premium tokens you have available to you
in that model.
Then you can see here that there's a
series of cloud sonnets which are 1.
X and then there's another one down here,
O2 mini, which is a third and a third.
I've seen at times some when a new model
pops up, it'll be 10 times, so yeah,
every.
Premium request is 10 tokens that goes
that goes against your allotment.
So it's something to kind of keep be
aware of as you're changing models and
you use this to actually monitor how
those additional premium requests are
So.
accumulating.
So I have a practical question here.
So I was using the free version and I was
always picking the GPT41 and after a
while it told me that I ran out of my
Right.
allowance.
How is that possible if they're all 0X?
Maybe at that time they were the model
that you're using was a premium model.
And and and it may be because there these
are 0X to me 'cause I have the I have the
pro plus version,
not the pro version that that's probably
I think closer to the truth.
Yeah,
I think looking in Visual Studio Peter
OK.
right now it shows as a 1X.
For these.
Okay, thanks. Thanks.
5.
OK, alright.
All right.
So we talked about any context. Um.
We'll talk about modes in in just a
second,
and so then over here we have tooling.
And so this brings up the list of tools
that are that are configured.
There are a series of built-in tools
which allows you to do some very some
very basic things. One of the things that.
I think it's kind of nifty is that you
can if you're working in a web
application,
you can open your web application in the
simple browser and that simple browser
then will allow you to add into your
context window.
Some element out of your out of the Dom,
so you can actually move into the Dom
that particular element and then you can
get a add an instruction.
Can you change this particular portion of
the web page in order to do something?
Different to it, increase the margins,
change the behavior,
just anything that you wanted to try to
do and it helps you focus the copilot on
a specific aspect.
So here we have a thing built-ins like
getdiffs and change files.
You can edit files, you can add search.
Extensions fetch code from actually from
a web page, manipulate a GitHub repo,
scaffold new workspaces. You can use the,
say the.
Sure, I I have one problem down here.
If I if I I can go down now because I
have that tool available to me,
I can go and say.
Problems.
You can see here as a tool and that would
that that makes the problems that are
reported here a part of my context and I
can now I can ask questions about like
and give instructions like you know,
help me understand what this problem is,
help me fix this problem,
that kind of a thing.
Um.
So back to those tools.
So there's a whole bunch of of these
built in tools and then there here are
listen the tools that are that I've added
and there are tools for that are
specifically for dealing with Azure for
dealing with.
Azure get Copilot for Azure.
Here you see I have pull requests enabled
so I can actually do pull requests from
the chat window and here are some
additional MCP servers and I'll talk a
little bit more about MCP and what it is
and how it relates to these tools in a in
a second.
If you expand one of these,
let's say the the pull request one,
it it'll expose you know here exposing 3
different tools.
The what the active pull request is the
co-pot encoding agent.
And opening opening up actual pull
requests or all tools that are get then
added and make it available to you.
So you could do something like instead of
problems you could do something like.
GitHub.
And you can see here GitHub repo is what
I want and then you can say this is a
command.
Maybe I hit the wrong one.
Yeah.
I should try something else. So anyway,
these commands we just do a blank list
allows us to execute the different
commands that are available to us and if
I go down in this list.
We should see that.
There are here for VS code specifically.
For for testing.
For MSSQL these are all,
these are all the extensions that I've
added and allow us allow me to do a very
specific things.
So for example with Mermaid I can ask it
to create a sequence diagram of a piece
of code or.
And it will create it for me.
So the idea is I've I have tools here
listed here and these are the these are
the the commands that those tools are
providing.
This is allows you to start a voice chat.
So if you're accustomed to doing that
kind of work,
it will allow you to do that.
And then there is the actual submission
piece where you send the the the prompt.
And to the Coco pilots,
you can send it with the code base tag,
so it will actually include the entire
code base,
or you can send it to a new chat and and
start a new chat there.
So that's a pretty good look.
Oh, here and here's another option.
So you can choose a a server to add and
this will allow you to add additional
tools in in your into your environment so
that you can actually take advantage of
those.
So let me jump back to the yeah,
so we the other thing I didn't show was
the at sign.
So this is where we're specifying a
specific area that we want to focus on
and then we can say at GitHub the we are.
Get answers are grounded in a web search
or code search or.
At Copilot.
And what this is really doing is actually
telling it do you want to invoke the
GitHub Copilot coding engine and you
could then ask questions that are
specifically targeted to that particular
domain and Copilot will figure these out.
On its own,
but it's it's gonna be helpful to provide
them for automatically.
All right, so let's go back.
We talked a bit about modes and models.
There's basically 3 built-in modes,
which is ask, edit and agent,
and then you can actually create a custom
chat mode.
So we'll go through all four of these
options during the course and describe
when they're used.
And when they're available,
then you can do what are called
instruction files and prompts,
which actually allow you to capture a
prompt that you have executed and
executed in a repeatable fashion.
So if you have a prompt that you want to.
Execute over and over again at different
times.
You can actually build a prompt file for
that and then it will be available to you
to run.
You can also do the same thing for
instructions and we'll spend quite a bit
of time tomorrow talking about what
instructions are and how to use them and
how to create.
Prompts and I talked about how to add
context and.
So in terms of adding context that that
that was what we're talking about here is
basically this is this is from context
you can add a a file or a folder and it
will use that an image from the clipboard
of a particular instruction file and MTP
resource.
A screenshot.
You can give it a screenshot of some text
and it will actually OCR the text and
figure out what's in it from something in
source control. I talked about problems,
symbols from inside of your code,
other tools,
and then you have other things that these.
This will basically listen.
Recently opened files so you can actually
say I want to I want to work with the the
readme file and it will then add that to
your contacts and you can then add it to
ask it to do something with your readme
file.
So it's.
Go back to the slides. I lost my place.
All right. So we've talked about that. So,
so instructions versus prompt files in
chat mode. So this,
so let's talk just briefly what the what
these are.
Instruction file is basically workspace
wide guidance.
So let's just say you're working.
And you want to have a guidance on what
your your coding conventions look like.
You can define that in an instruction
file and you can then then.
Copilot will use that instruction file
for every prompt that you give it.
So you can do things like say this is
what my C# coding style looks like or
what my conventions are,
what your standards are,
things that you would normally put in a
developer's guide of some sort or.
Or a read me file you can put into these
instruction files and it will become
essentially a part of your context and in
Copilot we use it for every prompt.
As I said,
the format is either a Jason or a YAML
file.
There's a Copilot Jason file that you can
create or you can.
Create a YAML file or a markdown file.
I don't see a markdown listed here,
but that's also included.
So you can find goals, conventions, tasks.
The audience is the autocomplete engine
and it's located in the root or a dot VS
code.
Folder.
A prompt file is more of a file specific
or task specific nudging.
It basically allows you to say you want
to accomplish something and provide it
with the detailed instructions on how you
want to accomplish that particular task.
So let's say that you want to.
Generate a test.
You could have a profile that will focus
the copilot on that specific task and
perform that task in a persona,
which would tell it that you could sell
it a persona like I am a test engineer
that understands test development using
your tool set.
And then it will and then you can outline
the steps that you want to take and how
you want to actually define that that
those tests.
So it's localized context to improve code
completion.
One thing I didn't mention about context
that I should is that we did talk about.
That context is a finite resource in your
current session,
so instruction files will increase your
context because it's actually providing
more context to your prompts.
A prompt file is a tool you can use to
reduce the context and have it focus on
specific things that are important.
And then you have custom chat modes,
which actually are interactive behavior
or tuning.
So you can create these custom chat modes
and they will show up in the chat window
and they can be focused on particular
tasks. So if you're writing C code,
you can have a chat mode that's targeted
for just.
Doing that. If you're reviewing C code,
you could have a chat mode that's focused
on doing that.
Or if you're writing a test,
generating documentation,
all of those could be potentially
different chat modes and you can switch
back and forth between them.
And it will change your context.
Any questions on this?
I'll show you examples of all of these.
Yeah, sorry,
I I think you said something I didn't
quite catch it about.
I think you said the instruction file
increases the like the context.
So that increases like how much like the
Context, yeah.
context budget or it like it makes it
takes up some of the context.
You know, OK, so in terms of the UI.
Here it doesn't affect this because this
is these are requests, right?
So what it's what what I'm when I'm
referring to context in that sense is
Right.
what it does is that you have that
context window for your session,
which is how many tokens.
You can actually submit as a part of that
request, right?
So the idea here is that when you add an
instruction file in here,
everything in that instruction file gets
added to your context and it gets
tokenized and submitted as a part of that.
It's a part of that context, right?
OK,
it so were you you saying earlier that
Uh.
like context is like a finite resource or
is that something else?
No, it is. It's it's finite in two ways,
right?
It's finite in terms of the actual
working session that you have right now.
And when you submit that prompt,
if that if the if the amount of tokens
that you're trying to put into that
context exceeds the size of the window,
then the oldest.
Context will be lost and it will no
longer remember those things and do those
Right.
things.
You doubt when you get into a when you
get into a situation where you're losing
context like that,
then that's when hallucinations start and
when things,
you know it just it doesn't understand
something.
That you told it to do and it forgets to
do it.
All those kinds of bad side effects
happen, right?
So that's context and that's it.
The other the other sense of context is
the tokenization in these premium
requests and how many of those requests
you can do.
Yeah,
so like in like I I guess I'm talking
about more like the first thing you're
saying like it can only sort of like hold
a certain amount of memory, right?
And whenever you give it and give it like
That's right.
these instructions in the the dot VS code
directory that will that'll just like
make sure it doesn't forget those things
or will that actually increase the amount
of things?
Things that it can like,
think about at once in like a broad sense.
It yes,
it increases the amount of things that it
can think about.
It's you know if you if you get it given
OK.
an instruction that says that all of your
C# code must have a header that looks
like this at the top of the C# code,
then you're adding that as as if you it's
adding it as if you had typed it into the
chat window.
So I I guess.
So if you like had like a like a enormous
amount of like instructions though,
would that like decrease the amount of
like context that you could give it at a
time like in the chat window like because
it has to remember all of these other
things or I don't know if that that is
even a coherent question but.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, that's a that's a good question.
But what you're really doing is saying
it's a like a shortcut for saying I don't.
So I don't have to type this every single
time into the chat window.
I put it into an instruction file and
have it apply and it applies then to
every prompt.
OK, I think that makes sense.
Other questions?
Yeah, I have a question.
So at work we are using Visual Studio
Yeah.
like 2022 as our development ID
environment.
So how much this modes and the commands
can be used in Visual Studio,
not just in the?
It's cold. Yes, yeah.
A good amount of it that they try to keep
the the the the two implementations in
parity,
but there are a lot of subtle differences
between the two.
You can do a lot of the same things,
but then maybe and some of them are maybe
in slightly different ways.
I spend most of my time in VS Code.
I've done.
I have used Visual Studio at times to to
to to generate some code,
but so I'm not as familiar with the UI.
And the other thing about these UIS is
that they change very regularly.
Things will move around.
You know,
there used to be a button down here for a
little while that allows you to delegate
a task to a to a background agent.
It would run.
It would basically create a pull request.
It would do a whole bunch of work
unprompted, you know,
based on what you asked it to do,
and then it will then finish this work
and allow you to review that and create a.
That pull request and actually
incorporate the code.
I was never able to get it to work.
I was always getting a authentication
error and then one day it just
disappeared.
So I'd expect to see it to go.
I would expect to see it show back up
again,
but I think the people have problems with
it that they.
Decided to to pull back. So yeah,
it's something to sure. Yeah, so it's,
OK. Thanks, Jack.
you know,
don't be afraid if they move your cheese.
They're gonna do that a lot.
Can can I jump in here for a second?
I I have used Visual Studio a lot and I I
Yeah. OK. Thank you.
Of course.
also used Visual Studio and VS Code in
parallel looking at the same Git
workspace.
It's not an issue like you can use VS
Code for all the magic generated stuff
and then you can pull up the project in
Visual.
Visual Studio, it's fine.
So you can basically have them side by
side,
use some some actions in one and then the
others in the other and there is no
issues usually. Does that make sense?
So basically both of them are enabled for
git tooling and you.
Kind of toggle based on what you're
trying to do,
you switch to this tool or that tool and
that's it.
Right. Maybe,
maybe a little bit later I can bring up
Visual Studio and we can kind of take a
look at the different UI's and do maybe a
compare and contrast or we could just go
down and just say.
What are the differences?
Yeah,
all I'm trying to say is that even if you
don't have complete feature parity,
it's fine.
You can use VS code for all the prompting
and the code generation,
and then you can pull up the project in
Visual Studio and work with it just like
we normally do.
So they are complementary in a way.
Right, right. Yes, they are.
And because if you think about it,
what you're actually sharing between
those two different ID ES is the code
that was generated and that code is
shared repo, right?
Right.
So you're just basically using two
different ID the.
Yeah.
I I have another question John, is it OK?
Do we have time?
So about these instruction files like how
do you learn?
Go ahead. Yes.
Where do you learn this from?
Like do you just copy, paste,
modify or is there like a pro level
reference on how to craft these
instruction files properly?
Or is that are you gonna teach us on day
three about this?
Um.
Oh yeah, yeah. Actually,
we'll probably get into that tomorrow.
I have some examples of of how to create
a prompt and instruction files for
creating prompts.
I have instruction files for creating
instruction files.
I have prompts for creating instruction
files,
so all of these things work together and
and I think you'll start to see from
OK, great.
looking at those,
you know how you can kind of build up a
an environment that you work in that
where AI is very consistently applied
across all those environments.
So,
so these instruction files in a way they
have their own language, right?
It's it's all marked down.
It's all English.
There's nothing. There isn't.
There's nothing.
OK.
Tricky, tricky about them.
OK. Thanks.
All right,
so I just added asked it to to tell me
what the differences are so we can come
back in a bit and take a look at what it
found.
So installation and configuration.
So there's really just two things to be
aware of here is that you need to install
an extension in Visual Studio or Visual
Studio Code.
So if we were to go back to Visual Studio
Code, it would be through the extensions.
And if I was to look at.
A copilot.
Yes.
So there's the.
Installed in in.
This.
2.
So the GitHub code review assistant.
Here's the copilot.
This is your actual GitHub.
From GitHub this would install copilot
and the and the chat features of copilot.
These are these also update quite often.
And you'll need to to restart the
extensions when they change,
but that will get the copilot installed
and then you also need a.
An account with with GitHub and I have a
here a couple of which one of those
accounts has to have a GitHub
subscription associated with it,
either a free subscription or one of the
pay to subscriptions.
And when you install the enterprise
version you'll need to log into GitHub.
Using that enterprise account.
Any questions on getting it installed?
Anybody have any issues with it
installing?
You can share settings across the
organization in a dot copilot settings
that Jason file and that will be checked
in with your project and it will to
control GitHub copilot through some
settings there.
All right, so following along,
the idea is I'm gonna go through some
demos here with some prompts.
The first one I want to do is install a
Golang for Windows,
which I've already done,
but the idea is that you can use a prompt
something like this and it will actually
walk you through the steps of installing
that.
I understand that you guys may not be
able to.
Do this. I don't you'll have to,
but you can you can follow along and if
you can't actually install the Golang
installation,
I'll be going through those same
exercises on my screen so you can just
watch that way.
But I I created some of the demos and
exercises in Golang because Go is a very
cross-platform, works on any any platform.
So no matter what OS you're using you can
get it to, you can get the code to run.
And so you could,
I don't need to see extensions anymore.
All right, so look at wow,
look quite a few here.
List of differences.
VS code cross-platform. Well,
that's not what I wanted.
So it looks like I need to fine tune this
prompt.
All right, well,
so let it think about that for a while.
Yes.
I have a quick question.
Right ahead.
Are we gonna be using Golang a lot for
this? Like this week?
Should we go ahead and download that
'cause we'll need to like get IT to help
us with that?
That could be helpful. I mean,
but you know, we can,
we can use whatever language that you
guys have installed. I mean,
there's no the reason I was picking
Golang because I wasn't really sure what
platform you guys were operating on,
what operating systems, so.
It was something that was easy to get up
and running,
but we could we could just as easily use
C#.
OK.
Yeah,
the focus is not on the syntax so much as
it is the higher level concepts and
getting us implemented.
All right, so.
So I I I have created a a repo I sent you.
I saw an e-mail about that which is just
strictly for the kind of the code
generation process.
I wanted to have a kind of a clean slate
that is this AI assisted development 1025
repo.
And I had intended on trying to do some
mob programming with that a little bit
later.
We may have to curtail our our
expectations on that until we can see if
we can get the mob dot SH installation
installed.
But we'll be able to take advantage of it
anyway,
and you can see that this repo right
right now I I used Copilot quite a bit to
to do some things like rotation and I'll
get into the mob programming piece in
just a minute, but.
It may turn out that I'll be the I'll be
the driver,
you guys will be the navigators and I'll
just type in all the all the commands and
we'll use one machine to do all the work.
All right, let's move on.
So I talked about different modes.
So the first mode I want to demonstrate
is the ask mode.
Basically a simple prompt completion and
inline suggestions.
So this won't change anything,
it will only provide you with outputs
useful.
It's useful in that for one is that it
just gives you the the output that you're
looking for. It doesn't change any code.
The second thing is that you can use some
of the more advanced models in ask mode
and not incur any premium.
Token penalties.
Edit mode will what it will do it will
actually modify the code in the file
itself.
So if you ask it to make a change it will
it will insert that change.
The the next mode is agent mode.
It's more it can do more than just edit
mode in terms of making a modification to
a a file.
It can change multiple files and actually
perform actions.
So you can actually have it, you know,
create a poll request, you can have it.
Pull something from a git repository,
scan directories for files,
all kinds of things like that.
So agent mode is actually is typically
the most productive mode when you're
doing interactive development.
But every agent mode request is things
against your premium request to content.
Then there are custom modes.
These are to be able to execute specific
workflows and I'll talk about how do we
create some of those and Windows would be
useful. But the idea is, as I mentioned,
you can have.
A custom mode that will target it to a
specific kind of workflow and this is a
great way of reducing your context
because you can specify just the
instruction files that you want to
include where normally they would be
available.
Across the board you could say use these
instruction files in order to accomplish
this particular task.
So let's we talked about the forking the
repos.
So is anybody having issues with doing
this?
Basically there is, there's the AI,
AI assisted software development one.
This contains all of the basically all of
the prompts, instruction modes,
the chat modes that are that I've built
up over my working with the copilot.
That you can you can apply to your own
projects very easily by just moving them
into your project or referencing them in
your repo. If you fork this repo,
then you can create a personal copy in
your GitHub account and you can make
changes without having to worry about
doing a push request back into the.
Back into the source,
it gives you more control over what
changes that you make,
and if you come up with something really
interesting that you want to share,
you can always do a pull request or push
back into the source repo.
All right,
so you'll wanna have a copy of this repo
and as well as the the copy of the the
1025 version of it,
which is something that you will will be
taking advantage of it as well.
As well.
John,
is the forking a suggestion or are we
All right.
gonna absolutely need this?
Well,
I think it's it's a good idea because I
think as you go through particularly some
of these exercises,
it's going to make a change and you're
going to want to commit that change.
If you fork the repo,
you have complete control over that
process.
Whereas if you're.
OK, got it. Thanks.
Basically separates.
Yeah, I understand.
Separates these two different uses of
this repo.
Alright, thank you.
Sure.
Yes.
Questions on that?
All right. Let me know if you have any.
Yeah, go ahead.
Oh.
Should should we be doing this right now
or later? Today is fine.
Yeah,
you can do it during lunch or later today.
That would be.
There's no issues with that.
OK. Thank you.
You just won't be able to follow through
following some of the examples.
This was an idea I thought might be
interesting is that is to go out and find
a repo in GitHub that is in a language
that you're familiar with,
but process a project that you're not
familiar with and fork that repo and
don't use anything that's in the company
because you don't want to use submit any
of your.
IP right now because we're not using the
enterprise version and we can use this as
part of the legacy code portion.
It'll be useful in the sense that you'll
be able to say I don't know this code
base and I want to find out more about it
and I want to understand how to use it.
And make changes to that.
And if you create a fork for it,
you can make all the make a bunch of
modifications to that repo and don't have
to worry about how to commit them.
So a prop like this would be.
You know,
we would find something that that would
or copilot would suggest something that
would fit into the this criteria.
So we could, um.
All right, so we'll see how that goes.
Now what I want,
what I thought we'd try to do is just
just start doing some work in go in
Copilot to implement a a a simple a
simple calculator.
So in our
1025 directory.
Let's use that as a as a place that we
can actually write some code,
but I'd like to do this in a more of a
mob programming style.
There's an add in for.
Professor should we code which is called
mob and it will allow you to do a a mob
programming type process.
Anybody here familiar with mob
programming?
Oh.
All right,
so the way the the idea is it's a it's a
Nope.
collaborative effort and what so that to
where in fact there's a read me file here
that discusses.
What it is.
And so the idea is that everybody works
at the same time.
There's if you were all together in the
same place,
you would have one computer and one
person would be doing the typing and then
you rotate the entire team.
Through very short coding sessions where
each person gets a chance to do the
typing and at that point they're not
really thinking about the work that's
being accomplished.
The rest of the team is guiding them in
terms of what they need to do.
It's a great way to collaborate on
something and focus on a particular task
and try to get that.
Done and it can go a long way to reducing
the effort that you need to put into code
reviews because you've already reviewed
the code cuz you did it when you wrote it,
right?
So I think it would be useful in this
situation since we're trying to
experiment with how to use copilot is
that.
You basically as a team can drive the
process.
I'll enter the information and do the the
code commits.
That'll be easier since we're not going
to be sharing driver responsibilities.
So that's how I thought this would be an
interesting exercise, so.
Let's start with a new chat session and
I'll do the first prompt, which is.
Create a simple.
Command line.
Calculator in C#.
All right.
So this is a very generic instruction.
We're not giving it any more context than
than this one prompt,
and we're specifying the chat GTV 5 mini
model.
And we can see here that it's used two
references so far. Prompt instructions.
Oh, I have a.
So there's in addition to the instruction
files, we'll talk about this more later,
but there's a personal instruction file
that you can create and it's pulled in
some instructions from that.
That and then it's pulled in open setting
for for code instructions.
All right,
so it's it wants to edit a a calculated
CS project file.
It's gonna look like this and it's asking
us for a permission to to do that because
it it's a tool that installed,
but every tool that you install.
It will not execute those commands unless
you allow them and.
And so you can say then if I want to
allow it for this session,
so this just while we're working in this
particular chat mode or in this entire
workspace so that any code in this
workspace or you can say always allow for
it to create that to to to to create that
file.
And um.
If I go to settings here.
There is a section in here.
In your your setting files,
it's going to be down here towards the
bottom.
Right,
these are the auto approve settings and
what this does is it allows you to define
exactly what what will be auto approved.
Notice it's a regex expression and a
actually a series of them and this allows
you to be specifically tailored if you
want one to run this command.
With these parameters and allow that to
be executed and then there's a
corresponding deny pattern where you can
say the remove command,
the domain command.
All of these are you denying the auto
approve feature so that it will actually
ask you.
To allow it to execute that particular
command.
Any any questions on these settings?
All right, let's go ahead and allow it.
And so this is what we see now.
Notice that we have an option here to
keep the change that we've made,
so it's essentially caching all of the
modifications.
Notice that as it goes along,
it marks these files here as being
generated code that we need to review.
Alright,
so we have a now it's it's created a
readme file.
It's created a program dot CS file,
a calculator dot CS proj file.
And if we look if we down here,
actually I'll have to show you the next
time you run a prompt.
But down here this changes to be a dot
indicating that that the prompt is being
processed and when it turns back into a
send.
Icon is when it's finished processing and
now you can do a keep and there's this
keep will keep everything that is done
for all three files.
This keep will keep only the changes that
we made to this file.
Or it made to this file and then this
keep in the individual file itself will
keep just this one change.
And as we go along,
this becomes a real nice way of reviewing
the modifications on an iterative basis
so that you can stay on top of what the
AI is.
Actually doing right?
So let's go ahead and keep that,
keep all of these instructions and then I
will ask you guys, what should we do next?
To implement this calculator.
Well, did you? Did you build it? Run it?
Does it work?
Oh, OK, let's try that then. Let's say.
Builds.
Is this a console based app or does it
have a UI?
But I asked for a command line calculator.
Command line OK.
So it looks like it.
So let's say.
Go ahead.
I was just gonna say it looks like it was
trying to build it.
If you Scroll down to the bottom of the
the chat window in cases like this are is
Oh, right.
this like the very end of it or will it
sort of let you?
Is it just like paused here if we like
allow this look?
Yeah, it's just.
Yeah,
so we could actually go and say always
allow the command.
net build and then from now on it will
proceed to do the build automatically
whenever it decides it needs to do it.
So slowly overtime you train.
Compiled it into what you think is safe
and what you think is dangerous and or
you can upload that that settings file I
showed you and then it becomes.
You don't have to basically allow every
single command for every single tool to
do that.
So it's done a build and see and it says
the build has succeeded.
Let me give us more space in the.
Yep, let's run it.
All right,
so let's go ahead and allow it to run the
project. Always allow.net run.
There it goes, and it works. So this is,
this is like pure live coding, right?
We're just telling the IAI what we want.
We're letting it write the code.
We're not being too picky about the code
that it's creating. We're just, you know,
trying to continue to move on.
So what's the next thing that we would
like to try to do? Oh, actually.
Actually running here,
so we could actually do something else.
Well.
I would like to verify.
Hey.
Right. Or how about?
Anything else we wanna do while we're
running the app?
Maybe test like the parentheses and stuff,
just I don't know, give it like it.
So I'm reading the read me and it says it
supports parentheses.
Do what?
So maybe like do something sort of
complicated with parentheses like give it
some sort of nested.
Can we throw in a decimal number and a
negative number?
Divide by zero.
Yeah, I want to test that. Divide by zero,
please.
Let's throw something at it.
We can try it without the divide by zero.
All right. Are we satisfied with this?
No.
Yeah, that seems pretty good.
It's it's good enough for a demo.
Well, let's let's keep going though,
I mean.
Well,
let's generate some unit test for it.
So what is it?
It's actually not finished yet.
So now it's going to actually run the run
it for us.
And we'll see. Well, I don't.
Let's see now here. This is where.
This doesn't.
This wouldn't really provide a lot of
value to add this exact command line
because we're not likely to run this over
and over, but it does allow you to.
Configure that auto proof and this is
actually going to open up that settings
citation file that I showed you and it
tells you basically some some tests on
how to to do that.
But anything that you can create a
regular expression for you could do that.
So you could create something that says.
net run project and then anything after
that.
Is fine, so let's go ahead and allow that.
Uh.
So.
So since we did that keep,
it's made a modification to the readme
file and here we can see what what
changed it actually made and it put in
some examples into the readme file for us.
Those look good.
So we'll accept those changes.
So you I heard unit tests.
Is that something we ought to see?
All right, so um.
There's actually a command for that to
say tests.
So generate unit test for the selected
code.
And for that we could say I want the
scope to be the whole code base.
So here it sees that it recognize that we
don't have any test framework set up.
So let's go ahead and ask it to do that.
Want to know which framework we want to
use? Do we have a reference?
Well,
it should match the the framework of the
code. I think it's big dotnet. Oh OK,
the tooling, yeah and and you need this.
Well, these are all. None of these are.
I know Ms. test is better for us.
Right, so we'll use Ms. test.
Yes.
Notice here there's a command that says
in the workspace set up the tests.
So it'll create a test roject for us.
So at a test projects,
it wants to create a calculator test.
So let's apply those changes that it
wants to make.
It looks like it's done.
This here is going to do search for an
extension.
It didn't find any extensions that would
help us out. And did it change anything?
Um.
It doesn't look like it.
Created our like edits edits have already
been applied.
So let's go ahead and now here's a.
These commands to say insert into the
terminal. So you could actually say, Duck,
I want to take this command and just add
it to the terminal.
You can insert it into a at the cursor
position and the file itself,
or you can copy it to the clipboard or.
Insert it into a new file or apply it in
the editor.
So we'll take a look at some of those.
Let's go ahead and run those commands it
wants to run.
Wow, looks like it.
It thinks it applied these changes for a
test project,
but it didn't actually do that.
So let's go ahead and say.
Execute this setup test one to see if it
will do that.
We went through this before.
Any questions I can answer while we're
waiting for the tool installed?
What is it doing right now?
It's trying the the workplace calculator
project and adding calculator tests.
I don't see that it's doing that though.
We seem to be caught in a little bit of a
loop here.
O Let's change the prompt.
I I think Seth has a question.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's the same question.
We've been answering like three times in
Yeah, I think.
I think it's already done this,
a row.
so it doesn't know what to do because
it's already been done whatever it did to
Right, right.
implement it and it created a calculator
dot tests directory over there.
Oh, there it is.
So is there a separate CS project file?
Right, so it did what it said it's doing,
right? So let's run the test then.
Yeah.
OK.
Thank.
So you hear it's found the test project.
It's read the project file.
It's found 6 results for test class or
test method and so then it's going to run.
net test commands.
And it did good builds.
And now it's going to run the test.
OK, got some errors.
Yeah, so let's.
Take a look at these errors.
Yeah.
So what it wants to do here is what?
We want to configure the project.
To resolve these dependencies that it
that it that it needs.
Let's go ahead and let it do that.
And we can see here that it's made a
change and we've then added the test
adapter and the test framework.
And it's upgraded the version of a.
net to to 8.0.
Um.
Sounds good.
Uh, is that a problem now restoring?
So it's thinking about that.
So it said it's.
He wants to convert the test into a small
console test runner.
So it doesn't need Nugent and run it.
How do we feel about that?
Oh.
I I don't know.
Oh, let's set this item this one.
Well, no, no,
you guys are driving to go forward.
Let's go for it.
The other thing we could do is we could
say no, I don't want to do that.
Well,
when you say it's creating a console
I'll do this.
project,
it kind of makes me think like it's
creating a custom tool just for this
testing,
which doesn't really make sense to me.
You should be able to test it with the
Right.
built-in.net tester.
Right,
so we could skip this step and not
actually change the project and and go
ahead and keep the changes,
but then work on the restore process and
get the restore process to work.
Yeah,
so I would rather just fix the errors and
resolve whatever dependency problems we
have. Something like that.
Alright, so let's let's skip that.
And let's stop it from doing what it's
doing and we can go through here and say,
OK, we let changes.
Changing some versions of the.
net SDK and I want to.
I thought I stopped that.
And this I I we keep this file.
We we like these changes.
Well,
that seemed to make sense at the time,
I mean.
Right, so we'll keep those,
but this is the minimal test runner that
it wanted to create.
And we don't like that, right?
Um.
Let's undo that change.
And now that's gone away.
So what we can now do is say.
Um, run the build.
Um,
so here it's asking us to make a proper
Ms. test project targeting.net 8.
Yeah, but it's also asking us.
I think what we want to do is we want to
actually execute this first one,
but not the second one.
I mean targeting.
net 8 does does make sense.
So it's giving it.
I thought that the original project was
also targeting.net 8,
so the test should match that.
Right.
So we're good.
So what I've done is I've copied the the
option that's given us these two options
and we don't want to do the the test one,
so the test runner.
So we'll give it that prompt and we'll
see what it can do with that.
So it's made some modifications to the
test project file.
Um.
Yeah, that's fine.
All right, so we'll let it do that.
Looks like it's increased the the test.
We'll keep that.
Yep, that's that's good.
If it, yeah.
Then it wants to do a a.net restore.
So we can say always allow net restore.
Can somebody remind me what.
net restore does?
Uh.
So John, just FYI,
we are working with the classic.
net framework versions like the old ones.
Everything you are doing here is.
net Core like a different tool set and.
OK.
I I can't remember all the connect
commands. It's been a while.
Basically what it does is it goes through
your project files and it makes sure that
you're it has the the versions that
you're specifying in your project file.
So here the it's unable to resolve the
MSS adapter for greater than two dot 2.
10 for net so.
It wants to be able to update that so.
It's updated the for project file be
proper.nettestfile.net aid,
but the restorer is failing because the
packet source mapping prevented Nuget
from using nugetop.org so.
Two ways forward. Preferred keep Ms.
test and fix Nuget configuration and then
re-enable Nuget.org.
So, so it's asking us up today.
Oh, fixing the nuget,
fixing the nuget configuration.
That sounds right to me.
So re uh enable Nuget.
But it wants in which one we want it want
to do.
Do we want to go ahead and do it manually?
Cuz it's giving us things open Visual
Studio. It's interesting.
So let's go ahead and edit the Nougat
config.
And do that.
Oh.
So this is what one of the reasons I
wanted to try go is it doesn't have a lot
of these odd dependencies.
But let's see how we do.
It's mapping from.
So here it's created a new file you get
config.
Oh, it looks like it restore completed.
And now we can.
Let's see.
Always allow.net test which is good.
Voila, a test pass.
Well, let's take a look at our tests.
It's the project.
Here's our unit test file.
Pretty simple one dot 1 + 1 is 2, 2 -,
1 is 1.
2 -, 1 is one. You happy with that?
Oh yeah.
You want to add more tasks because we're
only testing addition and subtraction.
Yeah.
So how can we start reporting on coverage
out of, you know,
all the features of a calculator versus
what we tested and?
Sister.
All right, which one do you want us to do?
What do you want to do first?
Do you want to add more tests or report
code coverage?
For court court coverage,
I think adding more tests would be we
could see how it changes then.
Maybe not so much code coverage here,
but it's uh feature coverage or something
like that.
So if the calculator can perform 20
operations and we only tested 2 then.
That will be 10% coverage, uh,
test coverage,
I would say a feature test coverage.
So I've given it the a prompt that says
report the code coverage when you run the
tests.
Mhm.
And hopefully if that's that'll stay in
the context as long as we don't do a new
session here and it will run the the code
coverage.
Now it needs to update the test project
file to add a dependency on the coverage
collector.
It looks like it created a new file.
Yeah.
All right,
so here it's reported the coverage files
analyzed is just the program dot CS file.
Valid lines are 48 line coverage is 0%.
So the tests were simply performing a
validation of the basic languages
arithmetic.
It wasn't calling any of the actual code
Right.
that was implemented.
That's correct.
This is why we we need to review the code,
right?
It's testing edition.
So it's not calling it any of the code.
So what is it?
So it's saying why unit test don't
reference any of the exercise code.
All right,
so add testable AI surface to the
calculator.
And then we can go down here and say,
all right, let's do, well,
let's keep what we have.
See.
You you want to kind of keep hitting the
keep button often because you we have a
we have a repository that has the changes,
51 changes is kind of a lot.
To have in a commit session.
So why don't we push our changes into the
repo so that we can see what modification,
see what modifications are accumulating.
One of my favorite features is this one
here is to generate a commit message and
if you have a template that you've
associated with the your commit message,
it will follow that template.
Um.
And.
So add the initial.
Is that a?
Is that a copilot feature as well the
generating of the message?
Yes, yeah, yeah. And it uses Copilot.
It'll go and look at your code and then
it'll try to create a message that makes
some sense about what it actually did.
So it created a runtime configuration,
added a new get dependency specification.
And has build properties included
assemblies established the source link.
Integrated the project accesses and
updated the project you get.
All right, so what's not answered?
I I don't see anything related to
calculator dot.
Yes, about the implementation itself.
So this is something you also kind of be
aware of and sometimes it will take a
shortcut.
And um.
And give you a commit message that's very
generic and bland,
like updated the documentation to make it
more clear and which isn't all that
helpful,
but it's it's useful to be able to at
least get a start on something that way.
Wait, I need to.
Stage those changes.
And then I can do our commit.
And let's go ahead and ush those U to the
repo.
All right, so suggested next steps,
add testable API surface to the
calculator and then it wants to add unit
test to the calculator,
which is what we were talking about doing.
And then after the tests are called,
it wants to rerun the coverage to see if
it's improved.
So what we can do is say is um.
Go ahead and and submit.
Number one.
Yeah, that's cool.
So this will just do the first step.
Oh.
So it's done everything that you need to
do for that.
Sorry.
So when you submitted one,
wasn't it supposed to make some code
changes?
Yeah, that's what I was thinking.
Let me stop this.
So when are the pending changes?
Right. So maybe that prompt wasn't right.
Let's go back up here and say.
Um.
To add the testable surface.
So quick question,
I noticed that that prompt had an OR
statement.
So how does it determine the logic behind
that or is that a failed or flawed prompt?
Which one here?
The I think it was #1.
Up here.
When it was creating the evaluator.
Or make the existing method public,
internal and testable.
Oh.
Is that what we're calling to perform?
Yeah,
we didn't specify which one that we
wanted it to do.
We just specified to add the testable
surface. So let's see what it did.
OK.
So it's saying it's adding a new public
evaluator class.
And that's the it's.
Right. So that's what I did it.
So we had it.
So it it took the first option and and
not the second one.
So where do we end up?
Added the testable calculator class.
Updated the CLI to use the evaluator.
Updated the unit test that called the
evaluator and then it ran test coverage.
And it's now overall test coverage is 15
out of lines out of 4831% and.
And 28% for the branch.
So let's take a look at what it changed.
So in rogram dot CS it's done a lot.
And one nice feature of this is that we
can, we can, like I said, we can.
Accept those changes.
Don't see it letting us do that.
Um,
you can navigate through this through all
the changes.
Just.
And review them.
So here's the first one we can set.
It's changing.
Evaluate expression to the calculator
library evaluator and you will should see
that there is now a calculator library.
You know,
maybe I haven't accepted it and then so
let's go ahead and accept that.
It's got rid of a bunch of the
implementation code.
And left a comment there that we are
delegating evaluation to the new library.
So that looks good.
Here's the new library,
the evaluator class.
And changes to the unit test are now
calling the calculator evaluator instead
of the just a inline calculation.
So that looks good. That looks good.
So.
So next steps add more unit tests for
corner cases.
So we can say go ahead and do that.
All right. Well,
it's time to take a break.
So why don't we do that?
We'll take a break for an hour.
When we come back,
we'll take a look at the code that was
changed and then we'll pick up where we
left off. Great.
Thank you.
You're welcome. Thank you.
Go outside.
8.
Yeah.
OK.
Yeah.
OK.